---
layout: post
title:      "Data Science Everyday "
date:       2019-06-28 13:45:07 +0000
permalink:  data_science_everyday
---

While mastering data science through the Flatiron school’s bootcamp, I started working part time at the clothing store lululemon. Upon starting my job in retail, I was just interested in the clothes and working out in the community. It wasn’t until my staff meeting last week that I realized how I can bridge the gap between my passion for data science and love for the cultural at lululemon. During our staff meeting we reviewed our employee pulse survey, which asks a series of question to judge employee satisfaction within the company. While the store manager was going over the results of our individual store, she compared them with the overall results of the company. In three categories we finished well above the company average and we were all very excited, especially the store manager, that we have such a positive experience working at this store; but it wasn’t until the store manager brought up some negative results that I started asking questions? Instinctively, my first question was “Are the store vs company stats for corporate as well or just store locations”. This could lead to why are store statistics were lower than the company average. For example, we fell below average with the question “Do you see yourself working in two years?”. If this question included corporate, it would be no surprise that we trended below average because being in retail, a lot of our employees are part time wether they are still in school studying finance or they are balancing retail with their teaching job. No matter what else our employees are pursuing outside of their job with lululemon, this could explain this negative trend. Another question popped into mind when our manager was showing us the stats for another question, calling this a second timer. She meant this was the second time in a row this question for our store had fallen below the company average. My immediate question to this was, “well is it better or worse than last year?”. The manager paused fo a moment and realized how my question could completely change how we viewed this review. Even though we may fall short of the company average, we should see how we as a store are progressing. Looking at the questions from this perspective can show us even though we may be below average, if we are trending upward it is still successful. After the meeting, I met with the store manager and explained how I could run data analysis on the survey results to better customize our stores answers. I will update my findings once I finish analyzing the data!
